# Professional Biography


## Contact Information
- **Email:** deshmuau@mail.uc.edu

## Co-op Work Experience

### Researcher
- **Company:** Stanford University – Dahl Lab
- **Location:** Palo Alto, CA
- **Dates:** May 2023 – Present
- **Description:** 
  - Implemented an intricate Block Infrastructure within the Verasonics ultrasound system codebase using OOD design.
  - Integrated VSX code with QUPS, revolutionizing pulse-echo ultrasound prototyping, boosting productivity by 85%.
  - Developed Software via VSX and SASSE enabling Real-Time Sound Speed Estimation and Aberration correction.
  - Contributed to the Python implementation of the MATLAB toolbox k-Wave (v1.3) enhancing reproducibility.

### Robotics Researcher
- **Company:** BUCL Laboratory
- **Location:** Cincinnati, OH
- **Dates:** Aug – Dec 2022
- **Description:** 
  - Devised automatized signal processing software operating waveform generator and oscilloscope using MATLAB.
  - Robotized positioning of the ultrasound transducer using the VXM-3 stepping motor controllers to point at specific parts of the brain for treatment, resulting in more than 5000 hours saved with 0.01 mm accuracy.
  - Pioneered a full-stack application with a GUI to simplify user communication with the system during the experiment.

### Software Engineer
- **Company:** Procter & Gamble
- **Location:** Cincinnati, OH
- **Dates:** Jan – May 2022
- **Description:** 
  - Spearheaded a cross-functional P&G team that replaced a manual system with an automated data flow model.
  - Debugged 30+ issues in KNIME by creating new functioning nodes to increase the efficiency of the system by 35%.
  - Administered supply and demand forecast team at UC Simulation Center to increase sales revenue by 15%.

### Research Assistant
- **Company:** University of Cincinnati
- **Location:** Cincinnati, OH
- **Dates:** Aug – Dec 2021
- **Description:** 
  - Architected and implemented an NLP model leveraging regulatory compliance and software traceability.
  - Incorporated NLP algorithms in Python to generate and rank policy clauses for specific breach reports using NLTK.
  - Formulated algorithms using TF-IDF to find similarities between policies and breach reports with 95.8% accuracy.

## Projects

### Heart Infarct Region Detection
- **Description:** 
  - Deployed a deep learning model with U-Net architecture to determine the regions of infarction in a rat heart at 97.5% accuracy.
  - Augmented 500+ images data from high-risk rats generated by the BUCL Lab to train the computer vision model.
  - Charted an end-to-end automated solution for the calculation of the percentage area of the infarct region in the heart.

### Driver Drowsiness Detection System
- **Description:** 
  - Engineered a Sleep Sensing and Alerting System for Drivers using Raspberry Pi, OpenCV, and Pi camera module.
  - Ideated this advanced system to prevent about 100,000 car crashes, each year, caused due to drowsy driving.
  - Programmed the system to trigger an alarm considering Euclidean distance between facial points on eyelids and lips.


## Project Sought

I'm seeking a capstone project that fuses computer vision, deep learning, and software engineering. My focus is on impactful solutions that bridge these domains, particularly in medical imaging, signal processing, or robotics. I thrive on multidisciplinary challenges and am eager to contribute to innovative, real-world projects that leverage cutting-edge technology. Collaborative opportunities are essential to me, as they enhance both the project's depth and its societal contributions. My aim is to create an outcome that pushes boundaries, utilizing computer vision and deep learning to address tangible issues.


## Technical Skills

- **Languages:** Python, C++, MATLAB, SQL, Swift, VBA, Bash, C#, Java, HTML, CSS.
- **Software:** Google Colab, JupyterLab, GitHub, AWS Cloud, Android Studio, XCode, KNIME, Power BI, Azure DevOps.
